Interested in contributing to the open source Spacebase DF9 project, but
not sure where to start?

Here's some areas that will be easy to start making contributions to:


== Linecodes ==

All of the text strings shown in the game are gathered into the
Linecodes file, which is located here:

  Data/Dialog/Linecodes/MainGame_enUS.lua

You can add new random terms, new phrases for the crew's Spaceface logs,
improved inventory descriptions, and so on.  Use the Galactopedia.txt
for ideas too.


== Translating Linecodes ==

The reason the Linecodes are all broken out separately is to permit
translation of them into other languages.  Have a shot at making a
custom translation by copying the file from:

  Data/Dialog/Linecodes/MainGame_enUS.lua

to, say:

  Data/Dialog/Linecodes/MainGame_esES.lua

and then work on getting all the strings translated to your language.
Note that names, jargon, and other stuff may be better left in English,
but use your judgment.



== New Events ==

See events_howto.txt for a tutorial on adding new immigration and
hostile events.


== Decorative Inventory Items ==

These are the random clutter that the crew picks up and displays on
shelves.  These are in Data/Scripts/InventoryData.lua

To add an item, you need a name, a graphic (for sPortraitSprite), a
short description, and some tags to influence the item's desireability.


== Hint Checks ==

These are the tips that pop up under certain conditions.  The conditions
are coded up in the HintChecks.lua file; they're fairly straightforward
for the most part, but they tie in functionality throughout the rest of
the game.

Are there hints you think are annoying, that could be toned back?  Or
new ones that are needed based on recent changes to the game?  Adding
hints can be an easy introduction to the codebase.


== Concept Sketches ==

If 3D art isn't an aptitude but you're good at drawing, then an easy way
to contribute is via mockup sketches.  Scan them in and add them under
media_src.  Charactg


== Establish a Blender Models Repository ==

In order to assure that Spacebase DF9 is Free and maintainable for the
long run, we want to replace all of the DoubleFine artwork with our own
under CC-BY-SA + CPAL licensed work.  That'll be a lot of work - that's
the bad news.

The good news is, with Blender being an open source application there
are already tons of models available on the web, provided under open
source licensing terms.  So even if you're not an artist, you can help
in the art side of things by going on a hunt for items that
look relevant to the game.  Add to the model collection in media_src.

If you are competent in Blender and would rather make new work, that's
great.  Essentially, anything visible in the game that doesn't have a
corresponding *.blend file in media_src is fair game!  Also, if you
think you can improve on one of the *.blend files already in media_src,
please do have a shot.  One of the reasons we're collecting the .blend
files is to enable collective collaboration on the art, since there is
much to do.


== Saved Games Test Repository ==

Create and collect saved game files for various conditions that would be
useful for testing purposes.  E.g. a saved game from right before the
Final Event, one from when a security team is just about to enter a
derelict, etc.

For developers it can be tedious to play through a game to get it to
just the right conditions for testing their changes, so having a
repository of saved games will simplify that.

For testers, these also may serve as shortcuts to validating that all
the major aspects of the game can be easily tested before a new release.

Note that these will likely need to be recreated periodically if we
introduce non-backwards compatible changes to the saved game file.
Hopefully that won't be too frequent though.


== Document Functions ==

DoubleFine didn't include a Fine Manual with their code release!  So as
you study some functions to learn how they work, add a sentence or two
comment in the code prior to the function explaining what it does, to
make life easier for the next new coder in the project.


== Advocacy ==

Spread the word about our efforts with Spacebase DF9.  This can involve
writing articles about our development work, finding publications
interested in running articles about us, or even direct fundraising
activities.


